---
publish: true
title: Psalm 103
aliases:
  - Psalm 103
---

[[Ps-102|← Psalm 102]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-104|Psalm 104 →]]
[[#My Notes]]
***



###### v1 
Praise[^1] Yahweh, my soul! All that is within me, praise his holy name! 

###### v2 
Praise Yahweh, my soul, and don't forget all his benefits, 

###### v3 
who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases, 

###### v4 
who redeems your life from destruction, who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies, 

###### v5 
who satisfies your desire with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. 

###### v6 
Yahweh executes righteous acts, and justice for all who are oppressed. 

###### v7 
He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the children of Israel. 

###### v8 
Yahweh is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness. 

###### v9 
He will not always accuse; neither will he stay angry forever. 

###### v10 
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities. 

###### v11 
For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. 

###### v12 
As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. 

###### v13 
Like a father has compassion on his children, so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him. 

###### v14 
For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are [[dust]].

###### v15 
As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 

###### v16 
For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more. 

###### v17 
But Yahweh's loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children's children, 

###### v18 
to those who keep his covenant, to those who remember to obey his precepts. 

###### v19 
Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens. His kingdom rules over all. 

###### v20 
Praise Yahweh, you angels of his, who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word, obeying the voice of his word. 

###### v21 
Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his, you servants of his, who do his pleasure. 

###### v22 
Praise Yahweh, all you works of his, in all places of his dominion. Praise Yahweh, my soul!

[[#Notes on v22]] 
***
[[Ps-102|← Psalm 102]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-104|Psalm 104 →]]

---
## My Notes
See [[Allison on the Psalms]]. 

### Notes on v10
[[#v10]] 
*He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities.*

Do not forget how God declared that on the day that Adam and Eve ate of the fruit, they would [[Gen-02#v17|surely die]]. Yet, He spared them that day, let them live, and even gave them clothes. Indeed every day we sin, and every day we [[Rom-06#v23|deserve]] death, and yet every day He has not repaid us for our iniquities. 

### Notes on v22
Remember that God works all things for good. [[Rom-08#v28|Romans 8:28]]


---
# Footnotes

[^1]: [bā·ră·ḵî](https://biblehub.com/hebrew/barachi_1288.htm): **בָּרֲכִ֣י** [H1288](https://biblehub.com/hebrew/1288.htm) 