---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: "[[Archibald Allison]]"
date: 2024-04-28
location: 
passage: "[[Ps-103#v11|Psalm 103:11]]"
sermon series: "[[Allison on the Psalms]]"
sermon link: 
subjects:
  - "[[mercy]]"
title: How Great God's Mercy Is
takeaways:
---


## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]- Scripture
>

## Points

- the mercy of the LORD is boundless. It cannot be measured. 
	- it is sublime, grand and glorious
	- This text today, uses all creation, the sky and earth as a picture of God's measureless mercy. 
		- The height of the sky
			- the height of the mercy required for Christ to give Himself up on the cross, to great cost to Himself
		- and the depths of the Earth
			- the depths of our deep seated sins, 
	- God does not punish the faithful as he deserves, but instead forgives us
	- God's mercy is not limited to a mere moment in time, when He gave up His Son on the cross, but extends past the very end of our lives. 
- Godly fear is one of the first products of the divine life
	- It is the beginning of wisdom. 
- Examples of God's mercy in the scriptures: 
	- King Manasseh of Judah was wicked, one of the worst, leading God's people into idolatry and even child sacrifice
		- [[2 Chron-33#v9|2 Chronicles 33:9]]: He even seduced Judah into being more wicke
		- Yet God had mercy on Mannasseh
	- Mary Magdalene and the man possessed by the legion of demons. 
		- Experienced great mercy from God. 
	- The prodigal son: 
		- He went far from the father, and chose immorality. 
		- Yet he came to an end of himself and returned to his father and was received by his father with love. 
	- The woman caught in adultery
		- Jesus said go and sin no more. 
		- [[John-08#v11|John 8:11]]
	- The woman who washed the feet of Jesus
	- Saul of Tarsus: 
		- He was the greatest of sinners, slaughtering Christians
		- Christ met Saul face to face, and Saul repented and was saved. 
		- He was not beyond the mercy of God, even though the Christians thought he was at first. 
	- Many in the history of the church came to church to cause trouble and to mock, yet went away saved. 
	- The thief on the cross: 
		- crucified, even ridiculing Jesus on the cross for a period of time. 
		- In his last breath, he asked for Jesus to remember him, and Jesus said "Today, you will be with me in paradise". What mercy Jesus had! 
		- the thief clearly did not deserve such mercy in any way. He had no merit, no history of Godly living. 
		- Why did he receive mercy? Simply because he asked for it. 
	- The Pharisees thought that these sinners were beyond the pale of God's mercy, but they were not. 
		- They were champions of legalism, works righteousness. They had hard hearts. They were against Christ, hypocritical. 
		- How strongly Jesus singled them out because of the corruption within their hearts. 
		- And yet many Pharisees were saved as well. 
			- Nicodemus, and perhaps Joseph of Arimathea. 
	- Solomon: 
		- Solomon was so blessed by God
			- God filled the temple that he made. 
			- But Solomon fell into sin, turned to idols, and pagan wives. 
			- Solomon did eventually repent
			- Yet God had mercy on him. 
	- King David: 
		- He also fell. Cheating with Bathsheba and murdering her husband Uriah. 
		- The Holy Spirit used David to write our text, Psalm 103. 
	- The disciples of Jesus who were so foolish, so slow to learn, doubting and even denying Jesus. 
		- they were saved by grace, and mercy. 
		- If you feel doubt, sin and temptation, remember that God's mercy is greater than our weakness and our falls. 
			- If we turn to him God will gladly give us mercy. 

## Application
- Think of your own story... 
	- You know yourself, you feel your sin and you cannot help but say amen to this verse when you see God's mercy. 
	- Perhaps you do not know God's mercy. Perhaps you are not a Christian. 
		- This great mercy, as high as the heavens is here before you right now. Turn to Him. 
	- Think of other great sinners like Manasseh. 
		- And yet Jesus also died in his place. 
		- He does not deserve God's mercy and yet neither do you and I. 
			- **For mercy is not deserved.** 
- Jesus died in the place of murderers, idolaters, adulterers and many repugnant people. 
	- What do all these people have in common? They turned to the LORD. 
	- That is what you and I must do. Turn to the LORD, and turn to the God of mercy and receive His grace and forgiveness. 
	- Do not be your own worst enemy here tonight. Turn to Him. 
- Realize that we need that great mercy. We need to be saved
	- And God is a great Savior, and He has great mercy. 

---
## Further Study
- 

---
## 💬Discussion Questions

1. 