---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: "[[Archibald Allison]]"
date: 2024-04-28
location: "[[Emmaus Orthodox Presbyterian Church]]"
passage: "[[Matt-27#v33|Matthew 27:33-34]]"
sermon series: 
sermon link: 
subjects: 
title: Christ Refuses to Drink
takeaways: 
publish: true
---


## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]+ Matthew 27:33-34
>When they came to a place called "Golgotha", that is to say, "The place of a skull," 
they gave him sour wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink. 

## Points

- This detail might not seem important but it is. 
	- Scripture says that Jesus was offered wine three times
		- once before He was crucified
		- twice while hanging on the cross
			- 1. Jesus was given a sponge which was dipped in wine, but He refused this also. 
- This morning we look at the first time that Jesus was offered wine
	- [[Matt-27#v33|Matthew 27:33]]
		- Who offered Him the drink? Most likely the Roman soldiers
		- It was intended as a mercy to Christ. The wine was a sedative for Him. 
			- It was a custom in the Roman army to offer condemned criminals a final drink
			- [[Mark-15#v23]]
			- [[Prov-31#v6|Proverbs 31:6-7]] : Give strong drink to him who is ready to perish, and wine to the bitter in soul. Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.
		- Jesus refused to drink this wine
			- He refused it not rudely, or proudly, but firmly
			- He first tasted[^1] the wine, but did not drink. 
				- Why not? Wouldn't He appreciate something that could lessen His suffering? 
					- It was certainly not because He disdained this act of mercy and kindness. 
						- Jesus graciously accepted previous kindnesses. 
							- He accepted the water from the Samaritan woman at the well. 
							- He accepted Simon of Cyrene's help carrying the cross. 
						- The answer is because Jesus chose not to have his senses dulled. 
							- He chose to endure the full pain of the cross and God's wrath. 
							- He offered Himself as a *living* sacrifice, and this He could not do as unconscious. 
							- Christ was both the sacrifice **and the priest**. 
								- In the levitical law, priests were strictly forbidden from entering the temple while under the influence of alcohol. 
							- Christ was also the sacrifice paying for the original sin. 
								- Adam was conscious and willful of his sin and disobedience. 
								- Likewise, Christ, the second Adam must suffer and pay the price of sin, conscious, sober and in full awareness of God's wrath upon sin. 
					- Even in the kindness of the soldiers, underneath it, was the schemes of Satan. For the devil was attempting to make Christ's work on the cross unacceptable to God. 
						- If Jesus was under the influence of the drink, He would've been delirious while on the cross. 
							- We would not have heard the beautiful intentional things that Jesus said[^2] while on the cross: 
								- Jesus said to the repentant sinner: "Today you will be with me in paradise"
								- When Jesus quoted Psalm 2 on the cross. 
								- When Jesus appointed John to take care of His beloved mother. 
								- When Jesus declared *it is finished*
						- No criminal would have refused the sedative. It would have been a mercy (though small), which would make the punishment at least a little more tolerable. 
							- Jesus hung on the cross, not as an incomprehensible babbler, but as a King. 
							- Jesus: *No one takes my life, but I lay it down willingly* [[John-10#v17|John 10:17-18]] 
							- It is terrible to say, but in Hell, there are no sedatives or narcotics. Nothing to dull the pain of punishment. 
						- Jesus took the punishment willingly, because we sinned willingly. 
							- ❓: Have you ever sinned willingly, knowing that what you are doing is wrong? 
						- **But we, fearful of our sin, take on *spiritual narcotics*, distractions and vices to dull our sense of conviction, fear, and guilt.** 
							- We act as if God does not see our sin. 
								- [[Ps-50#v21|Psalm 50:21]] But God sees our sins, and will rebuke us. 
						- **But God not only convicts us of our sins, He also provides for us the Savior, in Himself**
							- Jesus: *Should I not drink of this cup?*
								- i.e. *If I don't drink of this cup [of wrath], then you must drink of this cup* 
- Jesus sacrifice was complete: 
	- He did not blemish Himself and thus make Himself an unacceptable sacrifice to God. 
	- He experienced all the fullness of human life and death
		- We sinners, might be tempted to say, "Jesus, doesn't understand me and what I'm going through." This is wrong. 
			- [[Heb-04#v15|Hebrews 4:15]] : *For we don't have a high priest who can't be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who has been in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin.*
			- [[Heb-02#v17|Hebrews 2:17-18]] 
		- We can rest assured knowing that our Savior is a friend, who truly does understand and care for our sorrows. 

## Application
- 

---
## Further Study
- Was the *sour wine* given to Christ intended to be further mocking and ridicule, or was it meant to be a mercy to Him? 
- What is the symbolic meaning of the wine given to Christ, given that Christ said that He would not drink of the fruit of the vine? 

---
## 💬Discussion Questions

1. 
# Footnotes

[^1]: Why did Christ taste the wine? Because He did not know what it was until He tasted it. But upon knowing what it was, He rejected it. 
[^2]: the seven sayings of Jesus on the cross. 