---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: "[[Archibald Allison]]"
date: 2024-06-16
location: "[[Emmaus Orthodox Presbyterian Church]]"
passage: "[[2 Cor-11#v14|2 Corinthians 11:14]]"
sermon series: "[[Allison on 2 Corinthians]]"
sermon link: 
subjects:
  - "[[Satan]]"
title: 
takeaways:
---
## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]+ 2 Corinthians 11:14
>And no wonder! For Satan himself transforms himself into an angel of light.
### Related Texts
- [[Matt-04#v1|Matthew 4:1-11]] 

## Points

- Detractors in Corinth, false teachers tried to lead the church away from the Gospel which Paul proclaimed in Corinth. 
- Here we learn that Satan often transforms himself as an angel of light
	- 1. He often poses as a good minister of God. 
		- If he always revealed himself as he is, truly wicked then others would be wary of him, guarded, and so Satan would fool his own plans. 
		- Satan transformed himself into a serpent in Genesis 3. He regularly poses as whatever best suits his current purposes. 
		- He was once an angel of light, a brilliant seraph, and yet he has since fallen away. 
		- How does Satan pose as good? 
			- 1. He spreads **false doctrine**: 
				- All false teachers, heretics, and false religions have received their teachings from Satan (even if they do no know it)
				- *angel of light*: In scripture truth is often described as light, and lies are described as darkness. Satan pretends to spread truth, but it is lies. 
				- He twists the truth of God's Word. 
			- 2. Satan teaches these **false doctrines** under the **false pretense of saving them**:
				- He makes it look like he is giving us the means of salvation when he is actually leading us to misery
			- 3. He acts as a counselor and a guide: 
				- 1. He puts on a show of holiness. 
					- the good angels are holy, where as the devils are malevolent
					- Satan counsels us to sin under the pretense of **duty**
						- He convinces men to be miserly and unkind under the pretense of frugality. 
						- to be contentious and quarrelsome under the pretense of holy zeal. 
				- 2. He puts on a show of goodness or benevolence
					- the good angels are kind
					- Satan often uses scripture in his temptation to sin. 
						- He did this to Jesus in [[Matt-04#v1|Matthew 4:1-11]] 
					- Satan wrongly applies scripture in order to bring people to discouragement, despair, and to lead them away from hope and seeking after God. 
					- Satan uses scripture to tempt men into arrogance, hardening them in their sins. 
					- Satan pretends to lead us into good counsel. 
					- Satan tempts us to neglect our duties by telling us that if we do them we will only incense God more
						- Satan often mislabels true honest good piety as legalism. 
					- Satan tells us to sin in wickedness, telling us that in this way we are more likely to be converted, since other saints had wicked pasts before there conversions. 
				- 3. He appears as a comforter
					- He flatters men in their own light rather than saving light
					- He calls us to depend on ourselves rather than God. 
					- Every grace has a counterfeit: 
						- there is a counterfeit grace, kindness, love
						- there is also a counterfeit understanding of the truth. 
					- Satan disguises himself as not only an angel of light, but as the Greatest Angel of Light, Christ. 
						- He imitates and mimics God, in His Ways and His Works. But always skewing it to evil. 
						- Just as God raised prophets and apostles, so the devil has raised up Mohammad and Joseph Smith. 
						- God gave us scripture, and the devil has brought us the Quran and the Book of Mormon. 
						- This way Satan confuses us between the true inspired Word of God and the counterfeit inspired word.
							- How can we determine if a scripture is true? How can we determine right teaching and true doctrine?
								- [[Deut-18#v21|Deuteronomy 18:21-22]] : If the prophesy does not come to pass then you know that it is not from God. 
								- [[1 John-04#v1|1 John 4:1-5]] *Don't believe every spirit, but test every spirit.* 
					- What evil done by any man in history has ever reached the wickedness and inflicted misery that Satan has brought on this world? 
						- Wicked tyrants have killed millions and yet their wickedness still has not reached the level of Satan's depravity. 
- Satan's influence on this world is clearly visible: 
	- We see around us great sin that is actually defended as good, kind, tolerant and diverse. 
	- [[1 Pet-05#v8|1 Peter 5:8]]: Satan is a wolf in sheep's clothing. Be on guard. 

## Application
- If you will not be deceived by the counsels of Satan, then resolve that you will only follow God as He revealed Himself in the Scriptures. Then you will be safe. 
	- If anything is suggested to you as *best for you* then ask yourself *Is this agreeable to the Word of God or not?*
		- e.g. Satan tempts *Don't pray? It'll only make God more angry.*
			- Instead we should ask, *Does God call me to pray or not?* From this we can clearly see that Satan's counsel is wicked lies. 
		- We can see Jesus use this tactic in [[Matt-04|Matthew 4]] when Satan tempts Jesus, even using Scripture, but twisting it into lies. How does Jesus respond? 
			- Jesus responds with more scripture, thus exposing Satan's lies and showing how Satan took God's words out of context. 
		- Satan calls us to stop praying. What does the Bible say? 
			- [[Ephes-06#v18|Ephesians 6:18]]  

---
## Further Study
-  

---
## 💬Discussion Questions



---
## Transcript
The text for the sermon this evening is Psalm 103 verses 20 and 21. "Bless the Lord, you His angels who excel in strength, who do His Word, heeding the voice of His Word. Bless the Lord, all you His hosts, you ministers of His who do His pleasure. Beloved congregation of the Lord, Jesus Christ." The Lord says in Psalm 103 verse 19, the Lord has established His throne in heaven and His kingdom rules over all. In the next verse, verse 20, the Lord addresses the angels in order that no one may think that only creatures here on earth are subject to the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. In calling upon the angels to bless the Lord and to praise Him, the Lord teaches us that there is not a better nor more desirable exercise or activity than to bless the Lord and to praise God. There is no service the angels perform that is better or more excellent than blessing and praising the Lord. The highest and chief purpose of the angels is to advance the glory of God just as man's chief and highest end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. This example of the angels should awaken all of us from our drowsiness and slothfulness. Angels are very popular in our society. Millions of people admire angels, even those who have no Christian profession and no interest in the Bible. About 70% of people say they believe in the existence of angels. Mainstream magazines include articles on angels. There are more than 20 television shows about angels. There have been television specials and movies on angels. Many books are written about angels. Some say that you can get in touch with your inner angel to help solve your problems. Others say you can identify with your early angel experiences. Although our society has a growing fascination with angels, the church has largely remained silent about angels. More sermons mention the devil and fallen angels than holy angels. The topic of angels generates excitement, attention, and curiosity in the secular world. Without a biblical understanding of angels, there are great dangers. If we are not careful, we can become susceptible to the influence of fallen angels. The devil can ensnare people today just as readily and easily through fascination with angels as he can through materialism or sensualism or any of the other deadly deceptive tactics he uses. The oppressive, brutal religion of Islam was born in 610 AD when Muhammad received the contents of the Quran in a series of visions from someone he believed and he taught to be the angel Gabriel. That is not true. Twelve centuries later, the false religion of the Mormons began when a supposed angel called Moroni led Joseph Smith to write the Book of Mormon. The potential of angelic deception of this kind is what prompted the Spirit of God to write to the churches in Galatia through the Apostle Paul in Galatians chapter 1 verse 8 to be on guard against even an angel from heaven coming in among you and preaching another gospel. Paul writes, "But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed." As we have said before, so now I say again if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. Not everything that says it is angelic is necessarily Christian. Secular books on angels are immersed in the occult and new age thinking. Angelic movies and television shows usually set forth angels in unbiblical ways. The rise of belief in angels among people around us is no guarantee that people understand more of the truth of God and more of the work of God in this world. If we are not careful, it will have the opposite effect and more and more people will turn away from the truth of the Word of God and begin to rely on man-made inventions even about angels. We must be cautious about angels because there is the danger of being overly occupied or preoccupied with angels. We must take note of the warnings given us in the Word of God. First, we should not ignore scripture and reshape angels according to our fancy and imagination. Most angelic representations we see today are merely the products of human imagination. They are not at all in line with what the Word of God says about angels. The Bible has much to say about angels. Angels are mentioned 273 times from the book of Genesis to the book of Revelation. What does the Bible teach us about angels? Angels mentioned in scripture are always masculine. There are no female angels mentioned in the Bible. Angels can travel in a flash of time from heaven to earth and back again. That is even faster than characters can travel in science fiction, stories, and movies. God's Word makes it clear that angels are non-material. They are spirit. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14 calls them ministering spirits. Do not think of an angel as having a physical body. They may take a physical body upon them when God appoints them to special tasks. God did that in Genesis chapter 18 when the Lord was about to warn Abraham about the destruction of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. God sent three angels in human form to visit Abraham. Angels never appear in the Bible as animals or birds. The Bible says angels have no ability to reproduce. They do not marry nor are they given in marriage. There's not a single verse in holy scripture that teaches that angels have halos or spend time in heaven earning their wings. The Bible only two classes of angels are described as having wings. They are the cherubim and the seraphim. As far as we know the rest have no wings. There is no indication that angels age. There are not small angels who grow up. God's angels exist eternally. They are created but they exist for all eternity. The angel Gabriel who appeared in Daniel was the same unchanged angel Gabriel who more than 500 years later appeared to marry the mother of Jesus and also to Zacharias, the husband of Elizabeth and the father of John the Baptist. These angels are very powerful beings and that is one of the reasons why in the Bible whenever they come to greet people and to address themselves to people we almost inevitably find that their first two words are fear not. Because they are setting the people who are raised up in shock at rest such as the power of angels. The Bible angels exert fearful power for example. Genesis angels guard the eastern gate of the Garden of Eden with flaming swords. Three angels went to the city of Sodom and blind all the men in Sodom who are knocking on Lot's door trying to break it down. One angel is strong enough to move a large stone away from the entrance to Jesus tomb. Exodus chapter 14 says that an angel held the entire army of Pharaoh and Egypt at bay. Another angel in the Old Testament killed 185,000 Assyrian soldiers in one night. In the book of Revelation the angels battle with the dragon and overcome it. In a breathtaking way these incidents testify from the pages of holy scripture that these angels are incredibly powerful beings. The terrifying cherubim of the Bible have become little more than soft stuffed dolls in the teaching and view of many in our society today. Book of Revelation also gives us some indication of their numbers. John says that he saw 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands and thousands of angels around the throne of God. A football stadium will hold about 50,000 people. 2,000 stadiums of that size will hold 100 million people. The total number of angels that John saw may have far exceeded 100 million. 10,000 is the highest numerical figure in the Greek language. 10,000 times 10,000 may be John's way of describing an inexpressibly large company of angels. According to the Bible angels are creatures created by God, not some kind of spiritually advanced humans. People do not evolve into angels when they die contrary to many modern stories. The Bible never suggests anything like this. Human girls have no more chance of becoming angels than human boys do. From God's perspective we are on a higher level of creation than the angels. In Psalm 8 verse 5 the Lord says that he has made man a little lower than God and Romans 8 verse 29 says the hope of God's people is not to turn into angels but rather to be more and more conformed to the image of God's own Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. When we enter into eternity we will have powers and responsibilities that no angel has. For example, 1 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 3 says that we will judge the angels. One final misconception that we need to correct is this. God sent his only begotten Son to die for the sins of humans, not angels. For reasons in himself God has chosen to advance the future of his kingdom not through angelic beings but through frail human beings like you and me. We are frail subject to sickness and death prone to temptation, rebellion and disobedience, careless and forgetful in our worship of our great God and Father and His holy and glorious name. Blaze Pascal said we are the scum and the glory of the universe. He's referring to the fact that we are sinners before God and yet at the same time in spite of these sins, in spite of these shortcomings before God, God has set his love upon us to such an incredible extent that he sent his only begotten Son to die in our place that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. His love and His grace are our guarantee of glory. When you study what the Bible teaches about angels you find that there is no indication as to how God feels about the angels who sinned. But the Bible is extremely plain about how God feels about sinners, human sinners. The Bible says the angels are curious about what God has designed and what God has planned and what God is doing and bringing about in his wonderful plan of salvation for human beings, for mankind. 1 Peter chapter 1 verse 12 says the angels desire to look into our salvation and how God will accomplish it. They are intrigued by it. They are supremely interested in what God is doing for his people in saving them from their sins. And so Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14 concludes after comparing the Lord Jesus Christ to the angels in several different ways. The conclusion is in Hebrews 1 14 are the angels, they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for those who will inherit salvation. They're the servants of those sinners whom God saves. Salvation is for people not angels. These angels have a role in the economy of God's redemptive work in the application of salvation to God's people, to us, to you, and to me. The first rule we must be guided by is let us steer clear of these modern make believe ideas about angels and trust only what the Bible actually teaches about angels. And second, we should never allow angels to replace God in our lives. Those who do not know God personally can easily fall into this trap. They picture God in their minds as judgmental, punishing, demanding, and standing afar off raining missiles against the human race. In contemporary literature, angels almost never do these kinds of things. People today see angels as fluff, benign, kind, non-judgmental, and available to everyone and anyone who has a burden. For many people it is much more appealing to relate to a friendly angel than it is to a demanding God. They want help from this angelic companion when they are in need, but they are very uneasy at the thought of coming before Almighty God and appealing to Him and submitting their lives to the sovereign God who draws near to us in the person of Jesus Christ and who demands that we love Him with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, with all of our strength. And you shall worship the Lord, your God, and Him only you shall serve. Many people veer away from that. They recoil from that kind of demand. They want their own personal guardian angel who is at their back and call to answer to their demands and to be there for their whims with angels. People think they do not have to call on Almighty God in order to get help. This preference for angels over our Creator is an insult to God. God clearly commands us in Exodus chapter 20 verses 3 through 5, "You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, those who love me and keep my commandments. Even something as holy and pure as an angel in heaven is never to be turned into an idol. In Isaiah chapter 6, the seraphim, which means the burning ones, direct the prophet Isaiah's gaze away from them to the sovereign God. And they cry, "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of His glory." It is a cry and also counsel to Isaiah. Isaiah, if your ministry is going to be successful, if it is going to be empowered with the strength of Almighty God, then you're going to have to look to this thrice, holy God. You're going to have to rely on His power. The power of the Lord God Almighty, the Lord of armies, the Lord of hosts, do not rely on us. Another precaution is that we must never worship angels. Paul writes to the Colossians in Colossians chapter 2 verses 18 and 19, "Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind and not holding fast to the head, from whom all the body nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments grows with the increase that is from God. Man is only to worship the true and living God, the head, Jesus Christ, the king and head of the church. The sight of an angel is awe inspiring and it is easy for us to fall down before them because of the power they possess and worship them." The apostle John, as he records in the book of Revelation, had visions of angels. He writes in Revelation chapter 19 verses 9 and 10, then he said to me, "Right, blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he said to me, "These are the true sayings of God." And I fell at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "See that you do not do that. I'm your fellow servant and of your brethren who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Angel worship is no more acceptable to God than the worship of money or the worship of power or the worship of man or the worship of self-indulgence or the worship of heaven. Angels must never replace God in our lives." It is wrong to ask your angel for something. We're never told to pray to angels. We pray to God. He helps us. And our task is to guide people around us in our society today to believe the right things about angels, the biblical truths about angel in our conversations. We must help them to understand more about God. We can bring those who like to talk about angels to know about Jesus Christ who's even greater than the angels and who's a glorious and mighty and gracious redeemer of sinners. In our text in Psalm 103 verses 20 and 21 the Lord sets forth some of the ways angels are God's ministers. Angels deliver, protect, and defend God's people. We read in Psalm 34 verse 7, "The angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear him and delivers them." Are there any examples in the Bible where God's angels delivered his people? Yes there are. Many. For example in Daniel chapter 3 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to worship the great golden idol that Nebuchadnezzar had created and made and commanded everyone to bow down and worship it. And so Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are thrown into the fiery furnace that has been heated seven times hotter than usual. But God sends an angel to protect them in the fiery furnace so that not one hair was singed and there was not even the smell of fire on them. And this is recorded for us in Daniel chapter 3 verses 16 through 20 and verse 28. And then in Daniel chapter 6 Daniel was thrown into the lion's den. But God sent an angel to shut the mouths of those lions. Daniel was a child of God who was defended and protected by the ministry of an angel and his friends Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were protected by an angel from that fiery furnace and from death in that furnace. In Acts chapter 12 verses 5 through 11 the Apostle Peter was in prison and God sent an angel to bring him out of prison. The chains fell off, the doors of the prison opened, and the angel walked with Peter right out of that prison. John Gibson Patton was a famous Scottish missionary who served the Lord in very dangerous circumstances in the new Hebrides Islands. He recounts on at least one occasion when the Mission House was surrounded by hostile natives one night. Their intention was to burn the building to the ground and kill Patton and his wife inside the house. That night the Pattons turned to God in prayer. They threw themselves upon the mercy of the Lord. They pled for God to deliver them and they prayed throughout the night. And when the sun arose in the morning the natives were all gone. About a year later the chief of that tribe became a Christian. And when John Patton inquired of the chief of what happened that particular night the chief said who were all those men you had there with you. He told Patton that he and his warriors had seen many men standing guard outside that Mission House that night all dressed in shining garments with their swords drawn. They completely encircled the house and the tribe of natives did not dare to attack it. It reminds us of Elisha and his servant who experienced a similar deliverance. God's angels do protect us even though we may not be aware of it. The Lord promises in Psalm 91 verse 11 "For he shall give his angels charge over you to keep you in all your ways. In their hands they shall bear you up lest you dash your foot against a stone. You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, the young lion and the serpent you shall trample underfoot. Because he has set his love upon me therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high because he has known my name. He shall call upon me and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him with long life. I will satisfy him and show him my salvation." The Bible teaches us the angels do protect. They defend and they deliver the people of God. The Bible also says that angels give guidance from God. They give direction from the Lord. The word angel literally means messenger. This is one of the main tasks of angels. They bring messages from God to men. They're like heavenly postmen to deliver a message from heaven. So in Genesis chapter 16 verses 7 through 9 God sent an angel to Hagar after she had fled from the house of Abraham and the angel directed her in Genesis chapter 16 verse 7. We read, "The angel the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness by the spring on the way to shore and he said, 'Hagar, Sarah is made. Where have you come from and where are you going?' She said, 'I'm fleeing from the presence of my mistress Sarah.' The angel of the Lord said to her, 'Return to your mistress and submit yourself under her hand.' Then the angel of the Lord said to her, 'I will multiply your descendants exceedingly so that they shall not be counted for multitude.' And the angel of the Lord said to her, 'Behold, you are with child and you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael because the Lord has heard your affliction. He shall be a wild man. His hand shall be against every man and every man's hand against him and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.' Then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, 'You are the God who sees, for she said, 'Have I also here seen him who sees me?'' In Genesis chapter 19 verses 15 through 17, the angels direct Lot to leave Sodom, for it will be destroyed in the morning together with the city of Gomorrah. And they tell him to hurry and they laid hold of his hand and the hand of his wife and the angels dragged them out of that city that was doomed to destruction. We read in Genesis 19 that verse 15, when the morning dawn the angels urged Lot to hurry saying, 'Arise, take your wife and your two daughters who are here lest you be consumed in the punishment of the city.' And while he lingered the men took hold of his hand and his wife's hand and the hands of his two daughters, the Lord being merciful to him and they brought him out and set him outside the city. So it came to pass when they have brought them outside that he said, 'Escape for your life, do not look behind you nor stay anywhere in the plain. Escape to the mountains lest you be destroyed.' And then when Lot responded in verse 18, he said, 'Please know my Lord's indeed now your servant has found favor in your sight and you have increased your mercy which you have shown me by saving my life but I cannot escape to the mountains lest some evil overtake me and I die. See now this city is near enough to flee to and it is a little one. Please let me escape there. Is it not a little one and my soul shall live.' And he said to him, 'See I have favored you concerning this thing also in that I will not overthrow this city for which you have spoken. Hurry, escape there for I cannot do anything until you arrive there.' Another angel told Jacob, in Genesis chapter 31 verse 13, that it was time to leave the land of his father and law, Laban, and return home. And we read there in Genesis 31 verse 13, 'I am the God of Bethel where you anointed the pillar and where you made a vow to me. Now arise, get out of this land and return to the land of your family.' Judges chapter 13 records that angels delivered God's message to the wife of Manoa that she would have a son named Samson. The angels were particularly busy when Jesus was born. They told Elizabeth that she would have a child named John. They told Mary that she too would be with child, the Christ, the Son of God, Israel's Messiah, and the same angel delivered God's message to Joseph explaining what was happening to Mary and what he should do under those circumstances. 33 years later angels were there to deliver a message from God. When the women came to the empty tomb of Jesus on that first day of the week, we read in Luke's Gospel chapter 24 verse 6, 'That as the women were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, the angel said to them, 'Why do you seek the living among the dead?' He is not here but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee saying, 'The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified.' And the third day rise again.' In Acts chapter 27 verses 23 through 24 the Apostle Paul is in the midst of the Mediterranean Sea and there's a great storm that has arisen. And angels are charged with bringing Paul a message that neither the Apostle Paul nor any of those people on the ship will be lost. As God's messengers, angels had a special part in giving us the Bible. Both Stephen and Paul speak of the Old Testament law as being received by the ministry of angels. Ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator, Stephen says in his defense before the Sanhedrin in Acts chapter 7 verse 53, 'Who have received the law by the direction of angels and have not kept it.' And the Apostle Paul writes in his letter to the Galatians chapter 3 and verse 19, 'What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions to the seed it should come to whom the promise was made and it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator.' And in Hebrews chapter 2 verse 2 we read, 'For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast and every transgression and disobedience received a just reward, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed to us by those who heard him.' And when Moses remembers how God gave him the law at Mount Sinai, he says in Deuteronomy chapter 33 verse 2 that the Lord God arrived with ten thousands of saints. Deuteronomy 33 verse 2, 'The Lord came from Sinai and dawned on them from Seer. He shone forth from Mount Peron and he came with ten thousands of saints. From his right hand came a fiery law for them.' Angels also provide comfort and encouragement. Prophet Elisha is running in terror of his life to get away from that wicked Queen Jezebel, the wife of King Ahab. And the angel of the Lord comes and provides food and water for the weary prophet of God. And when Daniel is an old man, the angel of God appears to him and tells him what will happen in future days. And Daniel records for us in Daniel chapter 10 verses 18 and 19, 'Then again the one having the lightness of a man touched me and strengthened me.' And he said, 'O man greatly beloved, fear not. Peace be to you. Be strong. Yes, be strong.' So when he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, 'Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me.' In Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14, the Lord says that the angels are ministering spirits sent forth to minister to those who inherit salvation. The angels minister to Jesus after he was tempted in the wilderness. And in Luke's Gospel chapter 22 verse 43, we read that when Jesus was in the Garden of Death's Semeny, angels came and strengthened him. John Calvin said, 'God employs angels simply as a help to our weakness in order to elevate our hopes and strengthen our confidence.' Angels bring comfort and they bring strength. They bring encouragement to God's people. Angels also serve as God's ministers of judgment. Throughout history the Bible shows us that angels are instruments in the hands of Almighty God to carry out his purposes directing the destinies of nations and kings and rulers and individuals who are disobedient to the Lord and defy him. God used angels to gather the people of Israel because of their sin. God used angels to bring his judgment upon Sodom and Gomorrah because of their sin. God used angels to bring his judgment upon Babylon and Nineveh, those once great cities and great empires that fell. God used angels to kill the firstborn of man and animal in the land of Egypt so that the Lord might prevail against the stubborn and rebellious king Pharaoh and force his hand to free the people of Israel from bondage in Egypt. Acts chapter 12 tells us that an angel of the Lord smote Herod with worms so that he died because he did not give God the glory when the people praised him as a God. The ministry of angels is intended to be a reflection of the character of God himself. And so we read in our text, "Bless the Lord, you His angels who excel in strength, who do His Word, heeding the voice of His Word." The angels derive their ability and their authority from God. Apart from God, angels can do nothing and they are nothing. Their food and their drink is to do the will of God and to accomplish His work. In verse 21 the Lord says, "Bless the Lord all you His hosts, referring again to the multitudes of angels, you ministers of His who do His pleasure." That is why they exist. When they protect us, when they give us strength, when they encourage us, when they comfort us, they're doing the work of God. It is God's protection, it is God's strength, it is God's encouragement, it is God's comfort that they bring. Their guidance is God's guidance, their deliverance is God's deliverance, their comfort is heaven's comfort. In our text the Lord commands the angels to worship him. The Lord commands them to bless the Lord. "Bless the Lord, you His angels who excel in strength, who do His Word, heeding the voice of His Word." "Bless the Lord all you His hosts, you ministers of His who do His pleasure." When we learn what the Bible actually teaches about angels, then they teach us more about our heavenly Father for the activities they do and the powers they have about a reflection of God. They are His messengers, they are His servants, they are His ministers who reflect Him. The most important truth the angels teach us is that God is actively involved in our world and He is to be worshiped by all men and by all angels. God did not just create the world out of nothing and then sit back to watch how things will play out. No God is actively involved in the affairs of our world and one way by which he is actively involved is through the ministry of angels. We may not see it. Hebrews chapter 13 verse 2 says, "Do not forget to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares without even knowing it." Though we cannot see angels, God's angels are always busy doing His will. God is active in our world. Many people at some time or other in their lives, and perhaps you have felt this, feel that some problem goes on and on and on and on and on and on and as it persists it seems as if God is doing absolutely nothing at all and they feel as if God is to them an ever absent help in time of trouble rather than an ever present help in time of trouble as Psalm 46 says. Across the centuries this charge has often been leveled against God that He is doing nothing and yet the Bible says the exact opposite. The Bible declares over and over and over and over again that God is actively involved in history and in our individual lives and in all that takes place in the entire creation and universe. Let us assert that God sovereignly controls everything. If God stopped what He is doing right now the universe would fall apart. Paul writes in Colossians chapter 1 verse 17 "And He is before all things and in Him all things consist." God holds all things together. You and I can stay home from work for a day, a week, and things continue to roll along without us. But if God stopped His work in this universe, even for an instant everything would cease. God is involved in our world. The angels praise Him. The angels, the hosts of heavenly angels bless the Lord. All men, old, young, rich, poor, mighty, lowly, all people should worship the Lord. They should praise the Lord. They should bless the Lord. And the angels teach us to bless Him. Many people do not worship God. They do not bless the Lord. They don't even understand who the angels are or what they do. And they don't understand who God is and what He does. The angels are the reason and the means. One of the means that God uses to sustain people, to bring about His purposes in this world. And their activity ought to point us to the one who made them, to the one who is to be praised and who is to be worshipped, to the one who is to be served. We cannot worship God without the mediation of Jesus Christ because we're sinful and He is holy. And so we need the Son of God who is greater than all the angels to be our mediator, to be our high priest, and to be the sacrifice that atones for our sin. As you learn about the work of angels, do not be fascinated with them so much as you are amazed at God. And you are drawn into His presence through the Lord Jesus Christ in whom there is life without end. Amen. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage in your word and for all that your word teaches us about you, our great God and Savior, about the Holy Angels and all that they do in your service and as your ministers for your people who inherit salvation. Father, we pray that you will teach us to understand what you have revealed to us about the important work of angels, but that through understanding and learning about their important work, you might learn about the even more important work of you, our Triune God, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, working together to accomplish all of your eternal and holy purposes, working together in perfect unity and harmony to accomplish the complete salvation of all your people. So Father, may we worship you, may we bow down before you as the angels do in heaven, may we delight to do your will as the angels do, delight to do your will in heaven and on earth, and Father, may we delight to have fellowship with you because we are renewed and transformed and regenerated and saved and redeemed by the power and the work and the person of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, send your angels to work in our lives your holy purposes as your people and even those who are lost that they may come to know the Savior even as that chief of the people in the New Hebrides came to know and worship Christ. In his name we pray, Amen. 