---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: 
date: 2024-05-12
location: 
passage: "[[Rom-01#v14|Romans 1:14-16]]"
sermon series: 
sermon link: 
subjects: 
title: 
takeaways:
---


## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]- Scripture
>

## Points

- What is the theme of God's word? 
	- It is a risk to find only one theme, partially because we are trinitarians. This means that we will find more than one focal point of truth. Are we Christ centered, or God-centered, Spirit centered. Yes. All of these. 
	- The Bible's theme is about God revealing Himself to us. 
- What is the reason for the Bible? 
	- Revealing man's fall from God. Our sinful condition. 
	- God has set out a plan for our **redemption and salvation**. 
	- The end goal is that we be rescued, redeemed and that we worship Him. 
- Now we come to our text. 
	- v14: Paul: I am a debtor. I owe them. 
		- because he was called to this. Jesus appointed Paul to this task and therefore Paul is under obligation. 
		- This is also a good that we owe to our neighbors: to share the Good News. 
		- There is a great deal of passion for sharing news. 
			- Even the cults share their *bad news*
			- The rest of the world shares the message *eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we die*[^1]. this is a hopeless gospel. Not good news. 
			- Most of the news that we see in media is bad news: 
				- It is told to us by a beautiful face. This gives us the false hope that they have the answers to our problems. 
		- The world **needs** to hear real, true, actual good news. 
			- Our neighbors are dead in their trespasses. 
			- As believers we, like Paul need to say that we are debtors to our neighbors. 
				- Every time we have a conversation with someone, we need to find some way to share the truth with them.
					- We may be rejected and, if so that is fine. Christ was rejected as we see in John 6. 
					- No one was rejected more than Paul. He was stoned on multiple occasions. 
					- If we really believe this is Good news we ought to have passion to share this good news to others. 
		- Here Paul mentions 2 groups of people who need to hear the good news. 
			- 1. the wise:
				- the intellectuals. the rich and well-educated.
					- These are rarely humble and therefore rarely susceptible to the Gospel. 
					- They have so much internal contradiction in their own belief system, and yet they have great confidence in it. 
			- 2. the foolish: 
				- the rejects. The humbled. 
					- they tend to be much more susceptible
		- Nevertheless Paul says he owes them. 
		- Don't forget, that Paul also mentions the Jews. 
			- They had a great background of knowledge of the word and yet have rejected the Gospel. 
- v16: Yet Paul has proclaimed that he is not ashamed of the Gospel. 
	- The world wants us to be ashamed of it and to bring us down. 
		- They will attempt to shame you 
		- Also the world outnumbers you. This is intimidating. 
- We believe the Gospel and stand for it, and yet we overcome the opposition against us. 
	- Rev 14 says we overcome the devil by the blood of the lamb
	- If you are on the stake then the question is *what do we believe?*
		- What are you holding on to? When you are at death's door will you hold onto the truth or will you be ashamed of the Gospel? 

## Application
- 2 questions: 
	- 1. Why is this good news? 
		- This really is the question that is answered in the rest of the book of Romans. 
		- It is good news, because God has determined that it is good. 
			- God decides what is good. 
		- Let's summarize the 76 references to the *Good news* in the NT
			- [[Ephes-01#v14]]
			- Eph. 6 mentions the Gospel of peace 
			- [[Col-01|Colossians 1:5]]
			- 2 timothy 1:10
			- Romans 1:2-5
			- Romans 2:16:
			- Acts 20:24-25
			- Acts 28:31
			- Most of the references of the Gospel in the Gospels reference Jesus bringing the good news of Jesus bringing the Kingdom of God. 
		- So here is our summary: 
			- The Gospel is a work that is **already done**. 
			- It is what Christ has already accomplished for us. 
			- 1 Corinthians 15
			- This is something very securing for us. 
			- It is a Gospel of grace. 
			- It gives us everything we could ever need. 
			- It addresses sins, and it's power and consequences. 
		- Yet other world views:
			- essentially say *life is the pits and then you die*. 
			- Some religions propose reincarnation. That's not good news. 
			- Most world views essentially say you just have to pretend that everything is okay. 
		- But that is not God's Good News. 
			- God is ultimately good. 
		- The reason why people doubt the Gospel and can't receive it is because they doubt the goodness of God. 
			- This was Eve's mistake. She doubted that God could give her goodness if she didn't take it for herself in the fruit. 
		- Is God as good as His power? 
			- Well we see His goodness all around us, in nature. 
			- We need to believe that God has brought a Gospel that will solve all the world's problems. 
			- Because it fixes all the bad things in the world. 
			- What could be better than that? 
		- The Gospel means resurrection, ascension, rule, and then the kingdom of God. 
			- Jesus has overcome the enemies. He has already won. 
				- And we *will* win, as we trust in Him. 
				- He is King. 
					- We have a hard time understanding what kings have done in history. 
						- What kings do is they overcome the enemy and then they establish their rule and dominion. 
						- This is what Jesus did. He crushed the enemies of His kingdom. 
							- And He continues to do this throughout history. 
								- Ended the roman empire, the spanish inquisition, Mao zedong. Jesus brought these all to an end, and yet Jesus' kingdom continues to grow.
								- Psalm 45 shows this. 
	- 2. Why is this so powerful for all who believe? 
		- The theme of this book: how is this book a power for all who believe? 
		- Unfortunately the Gospel that is presented in evangelicalism today is an anemic, powerless gospel. But the real Gospel is **divine, life transforming, glorious, beautiful, powerful**
			- Ask yourself this: What can possibly overcome the sin in your life? 
				- Not just the whack-a-mole approach to sin, but really overcoming the underlying mechanism that causes these sins to pop up. 
				- What power can overcome the *lust, and the pride* in our hearts. 
				- The Law could not do this[^2]
		- Illustration: Swanson was at a Buddhist temple
			- There was a sign that said *while you're here try not to commit adultery or murder*
			- This is a sign of the powerlessness of Buddhism. 
		- Only the Gospel of God, the power of God can overcome our sins, our hopelessness, our depression, overcome the devil, overcome death and every other problem. 
		- This is the same power:
			- that healed the blind, deaf, lame, and lepers
			- that split the Red Sea. 
		- Have **you** seen the power of God? 
			- One thing I know: *Once I was blind, but now I see.* Jesus opened my eyes to the truth. 
			- this is how we can sing Amazing Grace. 
			- *I have experienced the supernatural power of God who changed me*. 
			- And this is Paul's prayer: that we would see, feel and know the power of God
			- We, believers are walking talking miracles. 
		- Believe these truths and be saved. 
			- [[John-03#v36|John 3:36]]
			- If you haven't believed it before, believe it now. 

---
## Further Study
- 

---
## 💬Discussion Questions

1. 
# Footnotes

[^1]: the ancient YOLO
[^2]: as Paul teaches later in Romans