---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: 
date: 2024-05-12
location: 
passage: "[[Exod-14|Exodus 14]]"
sermon series: 
sermon link: 
subjects: 
title: 
takeaways:
---


## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]- Scripture: Exodus 14
>

## Points

- This is a momentous scene recounted in scripture many times. 
- God saved the Israelites from the armies of Pharaoh. 
	- He sent a pillar of fire to delay the army. 
	- He parted the Red Sea so that the Israelites could cross. 
	- He drowned Pharaoh's army
- 3 imperatives in the text
	- 1. Fear not: [[Exod-14#v13]]
		- where did the Israelites cross? 
			- There are debates about if it was the gulf of Suez or another body of water.
			- Some say that this was a shallow body of water, denying this was a miracle. This couldn't have been the case since:
				- there were walls of water when they crossed. [[Exod-14#v29]] 
				- Pharaoh and his men were drowned in the waters afterward: [[Exod-14#v28]] 
		- God had a great plan to save Israel, that no man could have achieved
			- God made it look like the Israelites were bewildered, lost in the wilderness. [[Exod-14#v3]]
			- God sent the pillar of cloud, and divided the sea. 
			- No man could have done these things. 
		- When we are in a suspenseful, dramatic situation we often respond in [[Fear]]. 
			- This is how the Israelites responded here. [[Exod-14#v11]]
				- They were not walking by faith. 
				- It is dangerous to view the world by our own present circumstances, forgetting God's promises. 
				- Notice that there is something quite ungodly about what they are saying. 
					- Ultimately they are saying that God failed. 
						- They blamed Moses, but ultimately their grievance was against God Himself, not just His messenger Moses. 
			- This is the same way that we often respond, today, with unbelief
		- Moses told them to *fear not*: 
			- Usually it's not very helpful to simply tell someone don't be afraid. They'll respond something like *I can't help it.* Instead we need to give someone a reason not to be afraid. And this is what Moses does next.
	- 2. See the salvation of God: [[Exod-14#v13]] 
		- >stand still and see the salvation of God
		- Moses told the people: 
			- 1. stand still
				- be calm. Don't panic. 
				- How can we see the salvation of God if we are panicking? We will be distracted. To see God, we must be still. 
				- [[2 Cor-01#v9|2 Corinthians 1:9-10]] : Paul, also trusted God, even in the midst of death. 
					- Paul concludes that if God saved him then, and so many before, then God will surely save us in the future. 
			- 2. see the salvation of God
				- There is nowhere else to look. Only God can provide salvation. 
		- Why does God allow bad things to happen to us? 
			- One of the reasons is so that he can break us from the addiction of self-trust. 
				- He reminds us that self-trust is deadly and useless. 
				- God does for us what we could not do for ourselves. 
	- 3. Go forward: [[Exod-14#v15]] 
		- Following God does not mean being passive and doing nothing. 
		- Yes, we cannot save ourselves, but we must act. We must move forward. 
		- The Israelites did nothing to contribute to their salvation except for one thing: *they walked by faith*. 
			- They walked toward the sea even before it was parted. 
			- they walked through the walls of water, not knowing how long they would hold. 
		- Yes there are times that we must wait for God, but we should also ask *Has God called me to do anything right now*: 
			- Spurgeon: sometimes we use prayer as an excuse for inactivity. It is not. 

## Application

---
## Further Study
- 

---
## 💬Discussion Questions

1. 