---
type:
  - "[[Sermons]]"
speaker: "[[Archibald Allison]]"
date: 2024-05-26
location: "[[Emmaus Orthodox Presbyterian Church]]"
passage: "[[2 Cor-11#v7|2 Corinthians 11:7-9]]"
sermon series: Allison on 2 Corinthians
sermon link: 
subjects: 
title: Christ's Humble Servant
takeaways:
---


## 💡Big Idea
>- 

### Takeaways and Next Steps
- 


## 📖Bible Passage
>[!NOTE]+ 2 Corinthians 11:7-9
>Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself that you might be exalted, because I preached to you God's Good News free of charge? 
I robbed other assemblies, taking wages from them that I might serve you. 
When I was present with you and was in need, I wasn't a burden on anyone, for the brothers, when they came from Macedonia, supplied the measure of my need. In everything I kept myself from being burdensome to you, and I will continue to do so. 

## Points

1. What was Paul an example of? 
	- He was a humble servant of the Lord, Jesus Christ. 
		- He understood that he had a commission, a mandate, a responsibility to serve the Church. 
		- ❓: How have you and I met our responsibility to serve God's Church. 
		- Jesus Christ loves His Church far more than you or I ever could. 
2. How does Paul follow the example of Christ in our text? 
	- Paul follows Christ's perfect example of serving the Church. 
		- Paul worked without pay, free of charge. 
		- When Paul was in need, he refused to put his need above the spiritual needs of the Corinthians. 
		- He received support (finances) from the Macedonians.[^1] These benefactors gave freely out of their own generosity, love and surplus. 
			- Just as Christ served Paul, so Paul served the Macedonians, so the Macedonians here now serve the Corinthians. 
			- In this way, they imitate Christ ([[Mark-10#v45]]) who *did not come to be served but to serve others*
			- [[John-13#v4|John 13:4]] : Jesus also humbled himself, acting as a slave, serving His disciples by washing their feet. In so doing he [[John-13#v4|became their friend]]. 
3. What enables us to follow Jesus' example? 
	- We will begin to think of Him in new ways. To see deeper truths about Jesus that before were beyond our understanding. 
		- *I am no longer my own.*
			- Jesus did not come to give you a better life. 
			- Jesus now owns you. We must humble ourselves if we are to serve Christ. 
				- We might think to ourselves *Should I serve that person? They don't deserve it.*
					- Judas Iscariot did not deserve the love and service of Christ, and yet Jesus stooped to love those who would not love Him in return. And He calls us to do likewise.
					- [[2 Cor-04#5|2 Corinthians 4:5]]
			- ❓Does your life show your service to Christ and those those around you?
				- [[John-13#v17|John 13:17]]: *You are blessed if you **do** these things.*
				- Ask yourself, *Before whom did you last kneel inwardly and say I am your servant?* 
1. What does it mean to understand and follow Jesus? 
	- It means 
		- being willing to serve the undeserving. 
		- willing to do the slave-like thing for Jesus' sake.
	- We serve other in our work, our family, gathering with God's people in the Church, meeting the needs of the lost. 
	- This is why Paul humbled Himself to serve the Corinthians by proclaiming the Good News to them. 
	- [[2 Cor-05#v14|2 Corinthians 5:14-15]]  : Christ died for us **so that** we could radically and sacrificially serve others
	- John Calvin says of Paul: *the man was so enflamed with desire to serve God's people that he cast aside any desire for his own compensation* 
	- Life is about serving Christ and others, not about being served *by* others: 
		- in your family
		- in your work
			- ❓Do I humble myself to serve my customers, even when they are rude and undeserving. 
		- in your church
1. How did Paul humble himself to serve the Corinthians? 
	- He preached the Good News of God to them, free of charge. Without asking them to pay him at all. He was not a burden to the Corinthians. 
		- The false teachers were trying to undermine Paul and his ministry. They claimed that they were real apostles and that Paul was an untrained amateur. 
			- They claimed that Paul preached free of charge because Paul was not knowledgeable enough to receive Paul. They tried to discredit him. 
		- [[Acts-18#v1|Acts 18:1-4]] : Priscilla and Acquilla left behind all their possessions in Athens so that they could serve the Good News in Corinth. 
		- [[Acts-20#v32|Acts 20:32-35]]: Paul humbled himself by serving *so that* others would see that this is what *we should* do.  
			- Work diligently in *order to provide* for others. 
				- Your [[Topics/Work/index|Work]] is not the priority. Your priority is the kingdom of God. 
					- Jesus: *Seek first the kingdom of God*
					- [[1 Cor-09#v14|1 Corinthians 9:14]] : Paul received his reward from serving the Good News. 
			- Paul: 
				- received derision 
				- worked diligently, so as not to be a burden to those he served
1. What are some ways we should apply this in our lives? 
	- Come to Jesus

## Application

---
## Further Study
- 

---
## 💬Discussion Questions

1. 
# Footnotes

[^1]: Christ also had benefactors. 